You guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about building out your
web presence and what you need to focus on what you need to wrap your head around before you start.
Now I cannot stress enough how important your web presence is when a client or a potential client looks
at your proposal.
They almost always judge it through the lens of your website.
If you have a polished professional Web site they're obviously going to assume that their product is
going to look similar to that or at least in caliber quality.
Now if your website or your design is lagging then they might think the exact opposite and you might
find that you get passed up for higher quality providers.
Now a lot of clients don't like to admit this but they do subconsciously judge you based on your website.
You'll notice that when you have a nicer web site or a nicer web presence your clients are more likely
to believe you when you tell them or price or when you give them a suggestion on how to improve something
or change something.
The thinking just kind of goes that you know if you can build a site that beautiful or that Paulist
or that whatever it is then surely your advice is valuable and surely you know exactly what the prices
should be and it's going to be but like any startup in any leans toward up you know that you're not
going to want to go all out at the very beginning spending all your resources and all your time on making
the best web presence.
Why.
Well because sites are very expensive and you're about to find that out.
One of the biggest reasons why you don't want to go crazy at the beginning with your web presence is
because your web presence or your online presence kind of follows the 80:20 rule.
If you're not familiar it's the Pareto principle and that basically means that you can get 80 percent
of the effect of having a good web site or whatever the effects come from having a nice web presence
with 20 percent of the effort and then to get the final 20 percent of the effect.
The Polish You need to spend almost 80 percent so four times as much effort building a web presence
for purposes of selling say client services or web services follows that rule pretty closely.
Now another big reasons why you don't want to do this up front is because at the very beginning you
don't know what your messaging is.
You don't know what words what concepts what ideas resonate with your target market.
You also don't even know what your portfolio is going to look like.
You don't know how to display it.
You don't even necessarily know what your specialization is going to be at the end of the day because
it might change.
So the most realistic option is to start simple and then improve over time.
In this section we're going to cover the best way by far to get a good web presence cheaply and easily
for upfront.
We're going to do that with templates.
Now why do we choose that.
Well because they look amazing and they barely cost anything.
Seriously I see templates every day that are absolutely incredible.
I see them.
I think that their custom design even obviously the drawback to that is that you do not have as much
control on the customization of the design but that's something that at first you really just need to
forget about you need to understand that because at the beginning the most important thing is to get
something out there later as you start reeling in clients as you focus on the fundamentals of your business.
You start bringing in money then you can start to invest in your web presence and start to improve it.
It's unrealistic to do it at the very beginning.
So in this section we're going to talk about ways that you can kind of hack that process ways you can
spend minimal resources and get the best possible web presence you can upfront these are kind of the
things that really helped me when I started sprint.
And there are things that are applicable to any type of development company.
So keep that in mind.
Your web presence is totally an 80 20 type of thing.
It's going to take a lot of money to get a design that is only slightly better than what you can do
with a template.
It's a disproportionate amount more money to improve your web presence every time.
So it makes more sense that when you have more resources then you focus on improving it.
Right now we're just going to cover ways to get to square one easily in general that's great advice
when you're starting.
Start off with easy solutions improve them over time as you get more feedback and you get more comfortable
with the business.
Right seeing the next lecture.